Now that we learned a lot about the binding and directives.
I want to also highlight an important other feature of a large you or of Engler in general which you'll
often use does is setting up your own property or even binding.
So let's say we want to pass some data from our app component to the users and it would be nice if we
could somehow say well users we input the users we're looping through.
So this array here we don't set it up in our users component.
Instead we set it up in the app component and then of course we want to pass this array of users so
we could say users we want to bind to some users property which does not exist right now on our users
component and we want to pass in our users here now renamed to avoid confusion.
So let's say these were all our registered users.
So this property shall now be passed onto the users component.
And when we can do this by passing it like this.
Now again this will not work because users to which we try to bind here is not a property we can bind
to on our app users component.
So this component but we can make it work in the users component.
We're trying to loop through the users property anyways but we removed it.
So let's add it again but let's simply not declare it define it.
It's only declared it doesn't hold a value though.
Now we get the value from outside but by default you can't bind two properties in your components.
And this is good but you can explicitly state that you want this property to be bind the bill from outside
by adding at input like this.
Don't forget the parentheses.
And you need to import input from angular core like this.
Now with this we're telling Engler hey this property or maybe set from outside with property binding.
Exactly what we're using here.
Therefore if I now save this we should see the same map as before and we do all the names are output
here.
But now we're passing in this array of names from outside from our parent component from the app component.
Now we also can exchange data or information the other way around.
Let's say once we have an event you're in the users component we want to inform our parent component
about this.
So for example we not only have the show info button but we have to show a alert button.
Now here I want to say where I want to execute the on show alert method which will add to this component.
Therefore And of course could simply run.
Alert hello or something like that but I want to execute this code in my parent component here.
I want to have a method let's call it child on child alert.
And here I want to say alert child was clicked something like that now this method is placed in the
app component we can't execute methods in our components from while the user component for example.
But what we can do is we can create a custom event this user component emits.
So what being nice if in our app component template we could listen to let's say Alert fro on an event
which clearly doesn't exist yet and execute on child alert.
Now again alert rhône is of course not an event which exists but we can't create it.
We can go do the use component and at alert Fronteras was the name we used a second ago.
Now alert frozen should then be a new event emitter and this is an important event emitter.
You need to import event emitter from angular core.
It's a tool.
Angular gives you.
And here you can simply guess what image and event event emitter is a generic which means it may hold
it may pass any form of data.
For example it could pass the message you want a place in the alert.
So it will hold a string indicated by lower then and greater then sign and the type of data you'll be
met in between.
Now to make this any wind we still have to add something.
In this case at output and I think that should be easy to remember an input means data is set from outside
and output means the data is passed on to outside.
You also need to import output from an angle or core.
And with this you basically have your event set up.
Now you can emitted in on show alert by running this alert phone emit and pass.
This is my message for example.
Now in your app component you're listening to alert phone now does the event exist since we created
this event emitter and marked it with an output.
And in our app component we might want to display the message we're passing right.
This is my message.
We can do this by first going to the template where we listen to the event and where we then execute
a method in the component and we know we will get some data and this data always stored in a dollar
sign event variable.
This is a protected reserved word a reserved name so to say English to use is to hold your event data.
So always use dollar sign event if you want to extract your own event data dollar assign event is now
passed on to you on child alert and therefore here we know we will get divin data.
We know this will be a string so this will be our message to be precise.
So why don't we simply output message here.
And with this if we save this we should have a new button show alert.
And if we click it was opened on a different window.
But you see this is my message.
This is alert Frue and we threw it on the app component not the usual component.
So is a number important feature being able to pass data into components and to receive output or to
listen to custom events I should say.